docs/providers.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Providers

The provider by which `@erc725/erc725.js` will request blockchain data is set on the instantiation of the class through the configuration object.

The following provider types are supported:

## RPC URL

An RPC URL can be passed when instantiating the `ERC725` class.

```javascript
import ERC725 from '@erc725/erc725.js';

const RPC_URL = 'https://rpc.l16.lukso.network';

const erc725 = new ERC725([], '0x...', RPC_URL);
```

## Ethereum (MetaMask)

:::caution Warning

Ethereum providers are being deprecated. Please provide an RPC URL instead.

:::

The following code snippet will use the web3 provider available at web3.providers from the corresponding `web3` library.

## Web3

:::caution Warning

Web3 providers are being deprecated. Please provide an RPC URL instead.

:::

The following code snippet will use the web3 provider available at web3.providers from the corresponding `web3` library.

```javascript
import Web3 from 'web3';
import ERC725 from '@erc725/erc725.js';

const web3provider = new Web3(
  new Web3.providers.HttpProvider('https://rpc.l16.lukso.network'),
);

const erc725 = new ERC725([], '0x...', web3provider);
```

Commit message:

docs: add window.ethereum example to provider docs

docs/providers.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Providers

The provider by which `@erc725/erc725.js` will request blockchain data is set on the instantiation of the class through the configuration object.

The following provider types are supported:

## RPC URL

An RPC URL can be passed when instantiating the `ERC725` class.

```javascript
import ERC725 from '@erc725/erc725.js';

const RPC_URL = 'https://rpc.l16.lukso.network';

const erc725 = new ERC725([], '0x...', RPC_URL);
```

## Ethereum (injected provider from extension)

```javascript
import ERC725 from '@erc725/erc725.js';

const ethereumProvider = window.ethereum;

const erc725 = new ERC725([], '0x...', ethereumProvider);
```

## Web3

The following code snippet will use the web3 provider available at web3.providers from the corresponding `web3` library.

:::caution Warning

Web3.js providers are being deprecated. Please provide an RPC URL or injected Ethereum provider instead.

:::

The following code snippet will use the web3 provider available at web3.providers from the corresponding `web3` library.

```javascript
import Web3 from 'web3';
import ERC725 from '@erc725/erc725.js';

const web3provider = new Web3(
  new Web3.providers.HttpProvider('https://rpc.l16.lukso.network'),
);

const erc725 = new ERC725([], '0x...', web3provider);
```
